boy have you ever been stuck at an
airport
you've checked all your social networks
and texted all your friends
then you see that scary message 10
charge left
you find the closest charging station
and plug in your phone
and just like that you're the victim of
a cyber attack
this is known as juice jacking and it's
a real risk in public places
charging stations in shopping centers
airports hotels and food courts
or even on public transport can hide
things that put your data security at
risk
so how does it work the hackers install
a special program on a public charging
station
anyone who connects their device will
get that suspicious software
installed straight onto their phones
take a look at your usb charger a
regular usb connector has four to five
pins inside
only one is used for energy transfer the
rest are used for data transfers
most modern phones have data transfer
mode disabled by fault
but some older android versions are
vulnerable to hacking
and some people may have accidentally
turned on data transfer in their
settings
sometime earlier when you plug your
phone into your computer
you'll be asked whether to trust the
device but
you won't realize that the data transfer
has already taken place through the
charging station
once the connection has been established
there are two main risks
the first one is data theft when you
connect up to the compromise port
a criminal can infect your device and
steal your data
special programs allow them to look
through your files and apps
your credit card information logins and
passwords
and other personal information can all
be compromised easily
this is usually enough for them to gain
full access to your financial accounts
the other type of danger is the
installation of malware
this is software that can clone all of
your phone's data to the criminal's
device
the installed app might also gather
information on you
such as your gps movements purchases
social media activity and your photos
messages
and calls or one day you might wake up
to see your phone locked
with a message send money to this
account to unlock your phone
another risk is adware you'll see
unwanted ads and commercials on
every page you open on your phone the
worst kind are the invisible ones that
are downloaded to your computer when you
sync your phone
at home so how can you protect yourself
well first of all avoid using public
charging stations turn on battery
percentage visibility
limit your app use and check what apps
eat away at your battery
even if they're not open get into the
habit of charging your phone at home
at work or in the car that way you'll
never
find yourself in the middle of the
airport with no charge
but if your device's battery is not in
the best shape
or you constantly use your phone carry a
regular wall
outlet charger with you if you see that
your phone is
almost out of battery just plug it in
somewhere using your own
charging device there's no way to
transfer data or harm your device
if you use one of these or how about
taking a small
portable battery with you there are so
many right now on the market
hey you can get one with a cute design
and be on the go
and not worry about your phone security
but if
none of these is an option i've got
another solution for you
put your phone away and read a book
asking too much well then first install
a good anti-virus app on your phone
yes it might feel like the age of easy
to miss viruses
that can destroy your computer has
passed but that doesn't mean your device
isn't at risk
it never hurts to install some good
protective software
you can also get some physical
protection small usb
passthrough devices work like little
adapters between your usb
cord and your phone they stop the data
connection
and only allow power to go through but
let's say you have to use a public usb
charger how would you know that your
phone has been infected
well look for these signs see how fast
your phone works
if all of a sudden your brand new phone
can barely load apps
well that's a warning sign another one
is apps crashing
or if your phone restarts randomly in
the middle of the day
that means some background process is
eating up your device's processing power
but remember that older phones work
slower with newer operating systems or
apps
just watch out for a sudden change
likewise
look out for your phone overheating
sometimes you see scary messages saying
things like
your device needs to cool down before
you can use it
this might simply be caused by high
external temperatures that heat your
phone up to critical levels
or because you've played your favorite
game for way too long
but it could also be because your phone
has been infected
again watch out for sudden changes to
your device's behavior
unexpected changes to the battery level
can also indicate an unknown threat
if you've locked your phone and put it
in your bag with fifty percent charge
and an hour later it only has twenty
percent
something is definitely a miss but the
most telling signs
are changes to your phone or data usage
that you had
nothing to do with if you see surprising
changes in your phone settings
especially privacy settings that's a
very clear sign that someone else has
access to your phone
check your data usage statistics
regularly if you see that one to two
gigabytes have suddenly been used for
something that you haven't done
it's time to be worried if you noticed
anything like this
check your device for apps that you
don't remember installing
most spyware is invisible but sometimes
it looks like a regular
app that has installed itself on your
phone in this case
you should first restore your device to
factory settings
then update your apps developers
constantly upgrade their security
and finally install an anti-virus it can
detect and delete viruses and clean up
your device
but public charging stations are not the
only way cyber criminals can hack your
device in public places
do you know how much information they
can steal over public wi-fi
every time you connect to a public
network everything you do
will be visible to hackers since the
connection is not secure
they have no problem in intercepting the
information
so remember these simple rules don't
input your personal or sensitive
information well on public wi-fi
this includes banking information
passwords for social media
emails and so on
install and use vpn programs that can
secure your connection to the internet
they usually cost money i know but
nothing beats knowing that your
sensitive information is protected
invest in an unlimited data plan for
your phone if possible
it's a fast and simple way to create a
wi-fi hotspot on your phone
that way you are always protected and
finally
turn off file sharing this can be done
in a few clicks on different operating
systems like
mac or windows this will protect your
information and your work from
any attacker and don't forget to try the
book thing sometime